Add a section on the advanced configuration an build options with Kokkos (#855)
kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki: docs/source/get-started/advanced-configuration-and-build.rst

Advanced Configuration and Build
================================

nvcc_wrapper: Why do we have it and what does it do
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In general (except when being configured with ``Kokkos_ENABLE_COMPILE_AS_CMAKE_LANGUAGE=ON``) performance-portable code depending on Kokkos identifies itself as ``CXX`` code in ``CMake``.

> This implies, that the compiler used by ``CMake`` to compile ``CXX`` code must be able to compile the code for the backend and architecture enabled in Kokkos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general (except when being configured with ``Kokkos_ENABLE_COMPILE_AS_CMAKE_LANGUAGE=ON``), performance-portable code depending on Kokkos identifies itself as ``CXX`` code in ``CMake``.
This implies that the compiler used by ``CMake`` to compile ``CXX`` code must be able to compile the code for the backend and architecture enabled in Kokkos.
```

For the ``CUDA`` backend this implies setting ``CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=nvcc`` during configuration. But ``nvcc`` needed separate flags for the host and the device compilation (newer ``nvcc`` versions have improved support for unknown flags).

> This requirement of ``nvcc`` for separate flags implies that other libraries that are linked to the same target also need to adhere to do this.

Reviewer: I think it's important to say that there are other compilers like `clang` that don't need a wrapper.

The most important flag that is set implicitly is `-x cu` to force every file to be processed by the device compiler as well. Similarly, we use `-x cuda` for `Clang`. Furthermore, `nvcc_wrapper` adds `-Xcompiler` for host flags. We basically want/need a compiler that can take host and device flags and processes every file as `Cuda` file.

Author: I am not sure if we want to have internals here ... but I do agree that we could spell out that clang does not need it

Reviewer: I think it's important to discuss why we can't just use`nvcc` but need the wrapper script.

Author: I added a note about clang here https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki/pull/855/commits/b2a8690d7bf8149dde463a7fe5a257c4de5319fe

> This requirement of ``nvcc`` for separate flags implies that other libraries that are linked to the same target also need to adhere to do this.

Reviewer: I think I would just remove this paragraph. The next one is already sufficient.

Author: I agree that it is not containing a lot of information, but I still think it helps to explain why we need this and it is just one sentence

To help users with this problem, Kokkos comes with a small ``bash`` script called ``nvcc_wrapper`` located in the ``bin`` subdirectory (At the current state there is no way to use this script in ``MSVC`` builds. Please see the section on compiling Kokkos in CMake language mode below).

> This script has two functions. It redirects compile and link commands to ``nvcc``, and it sorts the given compiler and linker flags into the ones for the host and the device compiler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To help users with this problem, Kokkos comes with a small ``bash`` script called ``nvcc_wrapper`` located in the ``bin`` subdirectory. 
This script has two functions: It ensures that every file is compiled and linked by ``nvcc``, and it directs host and device compiler flags to host and device compiler respectively.
```

Author: Is that diff correct? wouldn't it repeat l13?

Reviewer: Ah, it should have been on the previous line. I just meant to suggest removing the the MSVC comment.

> To use it, set ``CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=<path_to_kokkos>/bin/nvcc_wrapper``, replacing ``<path_to_kokkos>`` with the path of the Kokkos you are using. If you don't do that, Kokkos will use ``kokkos_launch_compiler`` (see next section) to redirect calls to ``nvcc_wrapper`` automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use it explicitly, set the ``CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER`` accordingly. If the provided compiler can't compile device code, Kokkos will use ``kokkos_launch_compiler`` (see next section) to redirect calls to ``nvcc_wrapper`` automatically.
```

> To use it, set ``CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=<path_to_kokkos>/bin/nvcc_wrapper``, replacing ``<path_to_kokkos>`` with the path of the Kokkos you are using. If you don't do that, Kokkos will use ``kokkos_launch_compiler`` (see next section) to redirect calls to ``nvcc_wrapper`` automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use it, set ``CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=<path_to_kokkos>/bin/nvcc_wrapper``, replacing ``<path_to_kokkos>`` with the path of the Kokkos you are using. If you do not do that, Kokkos will use ``kokkos_launch_compiler`` (see next section) to redirect calls to ``nvcc_wrapper`` automatically.
```

kokkos_launch_compiler: What does it do and how to control it
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> In complex software projects that rely on multiple libraries it can occur, that the compiler Kokkos requires for the enabled backend can not compile one of the other libraries the project depends on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In complex software projects that rely on multiple libraries, it can occur that the compiler Kokkos requires for the enabled backend can not compile one of the other libraries the project depends on.
```

> To work around these situations, Kokkos introduced another ``bash`` script called ``kokkos_launch_compiler``.

Reviewer: Tthe main motivation for the launch compiler was that people can just use whatever host compiler they want without messing with `nvcc_wrapper`. It was introduced mostly as a convenience feature.

Author: what do you refer to when you say host compiler? do you mean the host compiler nvcc uses? or the compiler that is used by CMake for CXX files that we do not redirect the compiler away from?

Reviewer: The host compiler `nvcc` uses. It's much more convenient to use `CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=icpx` than `CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=nvcc_wrapper` and `export NVCC_WRAPPER_DEFAULT_COMPILER=icpx` (or `-DCMAKE_CXX_FLAGS="-ccbin icpx"`).

Author: but it also ensures that only files that depend on Kokkos are redirected and other files are left alone. This is a fundamental difference to setting a backend compiler like `nvcc_wrapper` for all C++ files. And it also works with just combining host compilers like g++ and clang.

This is the a much more valid reason to have this launcher than just convenience for setting a variable. Although it can also be used for that.

This script **only** redirects compiler and linker commands that compile a ``C++`` file that uses Kokkos to a compiler that can compile Kokkos code (e.g. ``nvcc_wrapper`` for the ``CUDA`` backend). Compiler and linker commands of ``C++`` files that don't use Kokkos, or files in different languages will not be redirected.

This script, located in the ``bin`` subdirectory, is meant to be used like a compiler launcher in ``CMake``.

> But (except when being configured with ``Kokkos_ENABLE_COMPILE_AS_CMAKE_LANGUAGE=ON``) Kokkos will try to detect if the ``CXX`` compiler that ``CMake`` uses can compile the code for the enabled backend. If the ``CXX`` compiler can **not** compile the backend code, Kokkos automatically uses ``kokkos_launch_compiler``. The idea of this to help users to create performance-portable libraries that seamlessly integrate into complex software projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But (except when being configured with ``Kokkos_ENABLE_COMPILE_AS_CMAKE_LANGUAGE=ON``) Kokkos will try to detect if the ``CXX`` compiler that ``CMake`` uses can compile the code for the enabled backend. If the ``CXX`` compiler can **not** compile the backend code, Kokkos automatically uses ``kokkos_launch_compiler``. The idea is to help users create performance-portable libraries that seamlessly integrate into complex software projects.
```

> Although, this covers most usecases, Kokkos provides ways for users to request ``kokkos_launch_compiler`` to be used **always** or **never**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although this covers most usecases, Kokkos provides ways for users to request ``kokkos_launch_compiler`` to be used **always** or **never**.
```

To always use ``kokkos_launch_compiler``, users can ask for the ``launch_compiler`` component when calling ``find_packlage``:

.. code-block:: sh

   find_package(Kokkos REQUIRED COMPONENTS launch_compiler)

In contrast, when users want that ``kokkos_launch_compiler`` to never be used:

.. code-block:: sh

   find_package(Kokkos REQUIRED COMPONENTS separable_compilation)

Compile in the CMake language of the backend
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> For the backends ``CUDA`` and ``HIP``, that have dedicated ``CMake`` languages corresponding to them, Kokkos can be configured to only set compiler and linker flags in the respective ``CMake`` language. This effectively causes Kokkos to identify as a ``Cuda`` or ``HIP`` library to ``CMake`` (**instead** of identifying as a ``CXX`` library). This does allow additional host backends to be enabled (e.g. ``CUDA`` and ``OPENMP`` and ``Serial`` can be compiled in ``Cuda`` language mode).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the backends ``CUDA`` and ``HIP``, that have dedicated ``CMake`` languages corresponding to them, Kokkos can be configured to only set compiler and linker flags in the respective ``CMake`` language. This effectively causes Kokkos to identify as a ``CUDA`` or ``HIP`` library to ``CMake`` (**instead** of identifying as a ``CXX`` library). This does allow additional host backends to be enabled (e.g. ``CUDA`` and ``OPENMP`` and ``Serial`` can be compiled in ``CUDA`` language mode).
```

> For the backends ``CUDA`` and ``HIP``, that have dedicated ``CMake`` languages corresponding to them, Kokkos can be configured to only set compiler and linker flags in the respective ``CMake`` language. This effectively causes Kokkos to identify as a ``CUDA`` or ``HIP`` library to ``CMake`` (**instead** of identifying as a ``CXX`` library). This does allow additional host backends to be enabled (e.g. ``CUDA`` and ``OPENMP`` and ``Serial`` can be compiled in ``CUDA`` language mode).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the backends ``CUDA`` and ``HIP``, that have dedicated ``CMake`` languages corresponding to them, Kokkos can be configured to only set compiler and linker flags in the respective ``CMake`` language. This effectively causes Kokkos to identify as a ``CUDA`` or ``HIP`` library to ``CMake`` (**instead** of identifying as a ``CXX`` library). This does allow additional host backends to be enabled (e.g. ``CUDA``, ``OPENMP`` and ``SERIAL`` can be compiled in ``CUDA`` language mode).
```

Advanced Configuration and Build
================================

nvcc_wrapper: Why do we have it and what does it do
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In general (except when being configured with ``Kokkos_ENABLE_COMPILE_AS_CMAKE_LANGUAGE=ON``), performance-portable code depending on Kokkos identifies itself as ``CXX`` code in ``CMake``.

> This implies that the compiler used by ``CMake`` to compile ``CXX`` code must be able to compile the code for the backend and architecture enabled in Kokkos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This implies that the compiler used by ``CMake`` to compile ``CXX`` code must be able to compile the code for the backends and architectures enabled in Kokkos.
```

> For the ``CUDA`` backend using ``nvcc`` this implies setting ``CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=nvcc`` during configuration. But ``nvcc`` requires needed separate flags for the host and the device compilation (newer ``nvcc`` versions have improved support for unknown flags).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the ``CUDA`` backend using ``nvcc`` this implies setting ``CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=nvcc`` during configuration. But ``nvcc`` requires separate flags for host and device compilation.
```

To use it explicitly, set ``CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER`` accordingly. If the compiler can't compile device code, Kokkos will use ``kokkos_launch_compiler`` (see next section) to redirect calls to ``nvcc_wrapper`` automatically.

kokkos_launch_compiler: What does it do and how to control it
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In complex software projects that rely on multiple libraries, it can occur that the compiler Kokkos requires for the enabled backend can not compile one of the other libraries the project depends on.
To work around these situations, Kokkos introduced another ``bash`` script called ``kokkos_launch_compiler``.
This script **only** redirects compiler and linker commands that compile a ``C++`` file that uses Kokkos to a compiler that can compile Kokkos code (e.g. ``nvcc_wrapper`` for the ``CUDA`` backend). Compiler and linker commands of ``C++`` files that don't use Kokkos, or files in different languages will not be redirected.

This script, located in the ``bin`` subdirectory, is meant to be used like a compiler launcher in ``CMake``.

> But (except when being configured with ``Kokkos_ENABLE_COMPILE_AS_CMAKE_LANGUAGE=ON``) Kokkos will try to detect if the ``CXX`` compiler that ``CMake`` uses can compile the code for the enabled backend. If the ``CXX`` compiler can **not** compile the backend code, Kokkos automatically uses ``kokkos_launch_compiler``. If it redirects to ``nvcc_wrapper``, it will set ``nvcc``'s host compiler to the ``CXX`` compiler. The idea of this is to simplify the usage of Kokkos performance-portable build system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But (except when being configured with ``Kokkos_ENABLE_COMPILE_AS_CMAKE_LANGUAGE=ON``) Kokkos will try to detect if the ``CXX`` compiler that ``CMake`` uses can compile the code for the enabled backend. If the ``CXX`` compiler can **not** compile the backend code, Kokkos automatically uses ``kokkos_launch_compiler``. If it redirects to ``nvcc_wrapper``, it will set ``nvcc``'s host compiler to the ``CXX`` compiler. The idea of this is to simplify the usage of Kokkos' performance-portable build system.
```

Although this covers most usecases, Kokkos provides ways for users to request ``kokkos_launch_compiler`` to be used **always** or **never**.

> To always use ``kokkos_launch_compiler``, users can ask for the ``launch_compiler`` component when calling ``find_packlage``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To always use ``kokkos_launch_compiler``, users can ask for the ``launch_compiler`` component when calling ``find_package``:
```

.. code-block:: sh

   find_package(Kokkos REQUIRED COMPONENTS launch_compiler)

In contrast, when users want that ``kokkos_launch_compiler`` to never be used:

.. code-block:: sh

   find_package(Kokkos REQUIRED COMPONENTS separable_compilation)

Compile in the CMake language of the backend
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> For the backends ``CUDA`` and ``HIP``, that have dedicated ``CMake`` languages corresponding to them, Kokkos can be configured to only set compiler and linker flags in the respective ``CMake`` language. This effectively causes Kokkos to identify as a ``CUDA`` or ``HIP`` library to ``CMake`` (**instead** of identifying as a ``CXX`` library). This does allow additional host backends to be enabled (e.g. ``CUDA``, ``OPENMP`` and ``SERIAL`` can be compiled in ``CUDA`` language mode).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the ``CUDA`` and ``HIP`` backends, that have dedicated ``CMake`` languages corresponding to them, Kokkos can be configured to only set compiler and linker flags in the respective ``CMake`` language. This effectively causes Kokkos to identify as a ``CUDA`` or ``HIP`` library to ``CMake`` (**instead** of identifying as a ``CXX`` library). This does allow additional host backends to be enabled (e.g. ``CUDA``, ``OPENMP`` and ``SERIAL`` can be compiled in ``CUDA`` language mode).
```

This implies, that files that link to Kokkos also have to identify as the respective ``CMake`` language, and need to be compiled for the architecture that is enabled in Kokkos.
To enable this behavior, enable the option `Kokkos_ENABLE_COMPILE_AS_CMAKE_LANGUAGE <configuration-guide.html#backend-specific-options>`_. For a detailed example and explanation check the notes on the option.

Compile in multiple languages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Complex software projects might use multiple libraries that use Kokkos. If one of these uses Kokkos in the ``CMake`` language of the backend (e.g. ``Cuda`` or ``HIP``), while other libraries use Kokkos as a ``CXX`` library, they need a Kokkos that can be compiled in both modes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complex software projects might use multiple libraries that use Kokkos. If one of these uses Kokkos in the ``CMake`` language of the backend (e.g. ``Cuda`` or ``HIP``), while other libraries use Kokkos as a ``CXX`` library, they need a Kokkos installation that can be compiled in both modes.
```
